---
title: "The Adobe CC 2018 Show"
description: "EP113: THE ADOBE CC 2018 SHOW
Today’s episode is a rundown of Adobe Creative Cloud 2018 and all of the new updates and applications that will benefit you as a content creator.

Episode Summary:
What is Adobe CC?
What’s new in Adobe CC 2018?
What new updates am I excited about?"
pubDate: "2017-11-03T00:15:19"
updatedDate: "2022-04-19T11:45:57"
draft: false
type: "post"
slug: "ep113"
permalink: "/ep113/"
legacyPermalink: "https://www.mikemurphy.co/ep113/"
canonicalUrl: "https://mikemurphy.ai/podcast/ep113/"
contentEra: "legacy"
visibility: "search"
author: "Mike Murphy"
featuredImage: "/assets/media/2017/11/2019_FEATURED-IMAGE113.jpg"
featuredImageSource: "https://www.mikemurphy.co/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/2019_FEATURED-IMAGE113.jpg"
categories: 
  - "Episodes"
  - "Podcasting"
tags: 
  - "adobe"
  - "episodes"
topics: []
search:
  include: true
  boost: 0.7
migration:
  dryRun: false
  prioritySample: false
  review: false
  eraRule: "pubDate before 2025-01-01 is legacy; on/after is ai"
  source: wordpress-wxr
wp:
  id: "205441"
  postType: "post"
  rawWordCount: 1061
seo:
  legacyTitle: "The Adobe CC 2018 Show - Mike Murphy Co"
  legacyH1: "The Adobe CC 2018 Show"
  legacyCanonical: "https://www.mikemurphy.co/ep113/"
  robots: "index, follow, max-image-preview:large, max-snippet:-1, max-video-preview:-1"
  liveWordCount: 1096
youtube: []
---
### EP113: The Adobe CC 2018 Show

Today’s episode is a rundown of Adobe Creative Cloud 2018 and all of the new updates and applications that will benefit you as a content creator. What is Adobe CC? What’s new in Adobe CC 2018? What new updates am I excited about? **Free 30-day trial of Adobe Creative Cloud:** http://mikemurphy.co/adobe **From The Archives:** [Episode 38: The Adobe Show](http://mikemurphy.co/ep38)   https://youtu.be/g4hqDXwqDck

### Adobe Creative Cloud Overview

Adobe CC is a subscription based bundle of creative software programs by silicon valley giant Adobe. Adobe CC is the creative industry standard used by graphic and web designers, video creators and editors, podcasters, print and advertising agencies and online content creators from all walks of life. It’s a big deal. Photoshop was always the program most associated with Adobe, but video, audio and animation is a major component of Adobe CC. **Cost:** \$50/month for full Adobe Creative Cloud \$20 for teachers/students \$20/a la carte apps (Audition only) \$9.99 for Photography Bundle (Photoshop, Bridge & Lightroom) **Free Trial:** http://mikemurphy.co/adobe

### Technology Trends

The reason I think Adobe and the [Adobe Creative Cloud](http://mikemurphy.co/adobe) is so incredible and important is that it is run by innovative and forward-thinkers and creatives and stays current and even ahead of the rapidly changing technologies which is not easy to do. ***Adobe and Apple and Amazon*** are dominating because they understand the behaviors of people and they are shaping technology and creativity and business with the tools and products and services they offer and if you want to stay relevant and stand apart from your competitors, all you really need to do is pay attention to what companies like Adobe are focusing on. You don’t need to know what AR or VR or artificial intelligence is, but if the new iPhone and all of the video apps in Adobe CC are talking a lot about those technologies, then maybe put it in the back of your head as something to keep an eye on. Keep your finger on the pulse and use the tools and services that will give you the best chance as standing out or getting noticed and take advantage of the tools that will help you move forward.

### Adobe CC 2018.

Major update in October of 2017. Use the Creative Cloud app to install updates. **Tools I Use:** Photoshop Illustrator InDesign Lightroom Audition Premiere Pro After Effects **New apps out of beta:** Adobe XD Adobe Dimension Adobe Character Animator.

### Highlights of Updates:

**Adobe Lightroom CC:** Brand new Lightroom in the cloud. The old version is called Lightroom Classic. Lightroom CC comes with 1TB and stores RAW and jpegs in the cloud so you can work from anywhere. Big deal. **Photoshop:** Curvature Pen Tool Improved Properties panel. Smooth brush strokes Better brush organization Kyle Webster Brushes Quick Share Menu **Illustrator:** Properties Panel Puppet Warp **InDesign:** Footnotes **Adobe Audition:** Auto-Ducking Faster Mix Downs **Adobe After Effects:** Virtual Reality and 360 camera editing Cool new animations updates **Premiere Pro:** Improved essential graphics Responsive animations Multiple Projects **Adobe XD:** Design & prototype, for designing websites, mobile apps, and more. **Adobe Dimension:** Composite 2D and 3D assets to build product shots, scene visualizations, and abstract art. **Adobe Character Animator:** Out of beta! New Triggers and Controls panels

### In Conclusion

Adobe Creative Cloud 2018 had some game-changer updates like Lightroom CC and many performance improvements and some fun new tools, but the biggest takeaway I want you to leave with today is to realize that you have powerful tools and cutting edge technologies available to you to create amazing things, but you have to be willing to dig in and learn new things and its up to you to stay educated and up to date. It would be impossible and impractical to try and learn all of the new stuff being thrown at us 24/7, but if you are in the creative space or you are trying to make a living creating content or building a business around social media and online marketing, it is your responsibility to keep learning and pushing the boundaries and testing new tools or you will get left behind and there will be no-one to blame. It took me several days after the Adobe CC 2018 release to read about all the updates and new features so that is why I wanted to make today’s show to just let you know some of the highlights, but to keep you motivated to stay current and not get complacent. Things are not slowing down, so keep learning, creating and moving forward. If you have questions about anything in the Adobe Creative Cloud, I’m happy to help and as I mentioned, there is a link in the show notes if you want a free 30-day trial so you can start dominating the content creation world.

### Patreon

If you would like to join my one man band and support the show for \$1/month, you can go to patreon.com/mikemurphy and that will unlock the super secret handshake. It’s a work in progress, but it is my goal to build a community of like-minded go-getters and do-gooders and joining the Patreon group also gets you direct access to me if you ever have gear or tech questions.
